ANA FINDS AN APARTMENT	"Ana, her husband Mario, and their four-year-old son, Antonio, just moved to North Carolina. They need
a temporary place to call home until they get settled into their new surroundings. Right now, they are
staying in a hotel not far from Mario’s job. Ana begins a search for an apartment for the family to live in.
First, Ana picks up an Apartment Book at the local newspaper stand. The Apartment Book contains
listings of all the major apartment complexes in her area. Ana starts by looking at the prices for
apartments in the Apartment Book. Then, she reads about the amenities that each apartment complex
offers. For example, some apartments have a clubhouse. Some have a gym, which is also called a fitness
center. Some have a pool. Some have all of these! Ana notices that the more amenities an apartment
complex has, the more it costs each month. She wants the family’s new apartment to be nice, but she
does not want to spend too much money on it. Ana and Mario are trying to save money to buy a house.
After considering prices, amenities, and locations, Ana finds several apartment complexes that she
thinks the family will like. Ana calls the apartment complexes. She sets up appointments with the
apartment managers to see the apartments she thinks are interesting. Ana makes five phone calls in
total. When Mario gets back to the hotel from work, Ana shows him the list of apartments. “These look
good,” he says. The next day, while Mario is at work and Antonio is at daycare, Ana visits the apartment
complexes. She likes the fifth one the best. It is in a good school district. It has a pool, but no fitness
center or clubhouse. It is near Mario’s job. Ana hopes to find a job nearby as well. When Ana gets back
to the hotel, she discusses all that she has seen with Mario. They decide to rent the last apartment Ana
saw. The next day, Ana calls the manager of the apartment complex with the news. The manager asks
Ana and Mario to sign a lease and pay a security deposit. If the family damages the apartment in any
way while they are living there, the security deposit will help to pay for the cost of repairs. Ana and
Mario sign a lease and pay the money. The manager asks them when they plan to move in and Ana looks
up at Mario. He looks back at her for a moment and then tells the manager, “In a few days.” Finally, they
have a place to stay."	Susan Carter
