
"When I was about 12 years old, my older brother, James, smuggled a BB gun into the house. I"m not
quite sure where he got it. This was in 1938, during the Great Depression. He must have bartered for it
with one of his friends. Our parents had told us many times that we were not to bring home guns or
knives, even if they were just toys. Having any form of weaponry in our home was strictly taboo. James
brought me to his room. He opened his closet door and took out a shoebox that was buried beneath a
heap of clothes. The BB gun was inside. I was immediately enamored by the shiny (albeit plastic)
wooden stock and the steely-blue hue of the barrel. He let me touch it and walk with it around the
room. I fingered the trigger. "Can I shoot it, Jamesie?" I asked, hopefully. "No way," James said, taking it
from me and putting it back in its covert location. I forgot about it for a while, but one day, when no one
was home, I went into James's closet and took it out. For some inexplicable reason " I have no idea what I
was thinking " I went to the front window of the second floor in our row house. I cracked the window
open. I pointed the gun outside and shot. I quickly shut the window and peeked outside. In a matter of
seconds, old Mr. Schlosberg came out of his grocery store. He looked back at his store window. He
looked up the street. He looked down the street. Then he looked straight across to our house. He could
tell from the trajectory just where that shot had come from " he knew someone in our house was the
culprit. I ran back to James&#39; room to return the gun and then sat downstairs, waiting nervously for
someone to get home. Thankfully, Jamesie made it home before Mother or Father. As he stepped
through the door, I could hear old Mr. Schlosberg call his name. "James, James," he called. "Come here,
son." I crept to look out the door and saw Mr. Schlosberg pointing feverishly at our house (up to the
second floor window!) and then at his shop window. James ran back across the street and into the living
room. I had retreated into the kitchen. "Alma!" he screamed. "Get out here! You cracked Mr.
Schlosberg"s window with my BB gun!" "Oh, please, Jamesie," I begged. "Don"t let him tell Mother. She
will whip my bottom real good!" Jamesie sighed. He wiped my tears and went back across the street to
Mr. Schlosberg"s. I don"t know what James said to that man, but there was never a mention of the
incident again. I didn&#39;t know how I got out of it, but I got out of it, and that was all that mattered to me
then. I was too self-absorbed to realize what a great brother I had. Years later, I found out Jamesie had
used the money he got from his newspaper route to pay for Mr. Schlosberg"s cracked window. He only
got one cent for every paper he delivered. He managed to pay back the debt just before he went off to
fight in World War II. Since that day, I have never touched a gun: a BB gun, a water gun, a real gun, or
any other type."	