BUFFALO WILLS
By Jame Gumb

The Buffalo Bills have played in Buffalo, New York, since they were founded in 1959. The Bills are the only team to play in the state of New York as both other “New York” teams, the Jets and Giants, play in New Jersey. The team plays in the American Football Conference (AFC) East Division. The name “Bills” was chosen as a result of a fan contest. The team was previously known as the Bisons, but other teams in the area were also called the Bisons. Although Nickels, Blue Devils, and Bullets were considered, a local boy won the contest with the Bills. The word “Bill” refers to Buffalo Bill Cody and his gang and is meant to symbolize the wild frontier. Fittingly, their sponsor at the time was Frontier Oil. The Buffalo Bills hold several records. They are the only NFL team to win four back-to-back conference championships, which they accomplished between 1990 and 1993. Unfortunately, they lost in the Super Bowl each year, becoming the only team to lose more than two consecutive Super Bowls, and the second team to lose four Super Bowls without winning one (the Minnesota Vikings have also lost four). Before the advent of the Super Bowl, however, the Buffalo Bills won league titles in 1964 and 1965. The Buffalo Bills have had many Hall-of-Fame caliber players. O.J. Simpson spent most of his career with the Bills and was once the league’s all-time leading rusher. Thurman Thomas was the team’s star running back during its Super Bowl years, and Jim Kelly was its quarterback. Bruce Smith, considered one of the best defensive tackles in the history of the NFL, played most of his career with the Bills as well. Smith holds the career record for most sacks by an NFL player (200) and was enshrined in the Hall of Fame in 2009.

Questions
1.) Which question is answered in the second paragraph? 
a.) Who won the Super Bowl in 1991? 
b.) Why was the team named after Buffalo Bill Cody? (Correct)
c.) How many league titles did the Buffalo Bills win? 
d.) What team holds the record for winning the most Super Bowls? 

2.) Which Buffalo Bill was formerly the NFL's all-time leading rusher? 
a.) Jim Kelly 
b.) Thurman Thomas 
c.) O.J. Simpson (Correct)
d.) Bruce Smith 

3.) Which is NOT true about Bruce Smith? 
a.) He is considered one of the best quarterbacks in NFL history. 
b.) He holds the NFL career record for most sacks. (Correct)
c.) He played most of his career with the Buffalo Bills. 
d.) He has 200 career sacks. 

4.) The Buffalo Bills are one of ______ teams to lose _______ Super Bowls without having won any. 
a.) two; four (Correct)
 b.) three; two 
c.) three; four 
d.) four; four 

5.) Why did the Bills change their name from "Bisons"? 
a.) The passage doesn't say. (Correct)
b.) They wanted to name their team after a famous president. 
c.) They didn't think "Bisons" represented their team well. 
d.) Other teams in the area were also named "Bisons."
