CAN WINDMILLS TALK?	"Do you know what a windmill is? Look at the picture. It shows a windmill. Most windmills have four
arms, like the mill you see here. When the wind blows, it turns those arms. This turns a big stone inside
the mill. The stone grinds grain. It turns the grain into flour. Farmers bring their grain to the mill. The
miller makes it into flour. Then people bake bread with the flour. There are many windmills like these in
Holland.
Do you think that windmills can talk? Well, they can. No, they don&#39;t speak words. Of course not. But they
can talk with their arms. Here’s how it works.

When the arms are not turning, the miller can leave them in any position. He can leave them in position
1. Or in position
2. Or in position
3. Or in position
4. Each position means something different. It’s like hanging out a sign. It’s a way of telling people
about the mill.
Suppose the arms are in position 1. That shows that the mill is working. It has only stopped for a little
while. Maybe the miller is having lunch. He’ll be back soon. So farmers bring their grain to the mill.
But suppose the arms are in position 2. That shows that the mill is not working. It will be closed for a
long time. Maybe the miller is ill. Maybe he has gone on a trip. Maybe the mill is broken. So farmers do
not bring grain to that mill.
Perhaps you’ve seen a flag flying at half-mast. (That means halfway up the pole.) Flags are flown at half-
masts to show sadness when an important person dies. In Holland people do the same kind of thing, but
with windmills. They put the windmill arms in position 4 to show sadness. But for happy events, the
arms are set in position 3.
In World War II, German soldiers invaded Holland. The Germans did not want any messages to be sent
out of the country. They took over the radio stations. They listened in on people’s phone calls. But the
people of Holland still sent messages. How? They used their windmills. And they used a code. Each
position of the arms had a special meaning.
By putting the windmill arms in certain positions, they sent messages to England. English pilots would
fly over Holland. They would look at certain windmills. They knew the code. They could “read” the
windmills’ messages. They took the news back to England. The Germans didn’t know about this code.
They didn’t know what was going on.
Can windmills talk? Indeed they can. If you know their language, they can tell you a lot."	Eric Carle
