CASTLES
By Franz Cafka

Windsor Palace is the world's largest and oldest continuously inhabited castle. Occupying over 484,000 square feet, it is over 240 times the size of an average house. William the Conqueror built the first castle on the grounds between 1070 and 1086, but the castle that exists today was largely built by Edward of Windsor in 1350. Edward of Windsor authorized the construction of a new keep, a large chapel, and new fortifications. From a distance, the castle appears dominated by a massive round tower in its center. In 1475, King Edward IV authorized construction of St. George’s Chapel as a cathedral and royal mausoleum. The chapel became an important destination for pilgrims in the late medieval period and is probably the most famous of the structures within Windsor Palace. During the 1500s and 1600s, Windsor Castle was damaged as a result of various wars. In 1660, however, Charles II became interested in restoring the castle and laid out plans for “The Long Walk,” a three-mile-long avenue running south from the castle. Charles II also had the royal apartments and St. George’s Hall rebuilt. The royal apartments were spectacular, with numerous carvings, frescoes, and tapestries. The artwork acquired during the rebuilding of Windsor Castle became known as the Royal Collection, which remains relatively unchanged today. In 1824, George IV moved into the castle and was granted 300,000 pounds to renovate Windsor Castle. The entire castle was remodeled and the architect, Jeffrey Wyattville, succeeded in blending the castle to seem like one entity rather than a collection of buildings. Wyattville raised and lowered the heights of various buildings to give them symmetry and improved the appearance and structure of others.

Questions
1.) Much of Windsor Castle was constructed under the orders of… 
a.) William the Conqueror 
b.) George IV 
c.) Edward of Windsor (Correct)
d.) King Edward IV 
2.) In 1824, George IV moved into the castle and was granted 300,000 pounds to renovate Windsor Castle. Which of the following is closest to the definition of "renovate"? 
a.) remodel 
b.) rebuild (Correct)
c.) tear down 
d.) calculate 
3.) Select all that are true: 
a.) Windsor Castle seems dominated from a distance by a large tower (Correct)
b.) Windsor Castle is the largest castle. 
c.) Windsor Castle is the oldest continually inhabited castle. 
d.) Windsor Castle burned down many times in its history. 
4.) Who laid out plans for the "Long Walk"? 
a.) Charles II (Correct)
b.) William the Conqueror 
c.) Jeffery Wyattville 
d.) King Edward IV 
5.) Who made major renovations to the castle in 1824? 
a.) Jeffrey Wyattville (Correct)
b.) Charles II 
c.) St. George 
d.) King Edward IV
