"Josiah Hodge collapsed in a seat at the Caf" du Monde restaurant in New Orleans. He put his head in his
hands and let out a deep sigh. Josiah had come to New Orleans to do a public service. He had come up
with the idea to develop a play for children affected by Hurricane Katrina, and he had secured a modest
grant from the government to do so. But he hadn"t accounted for the major hindrance he would face:
blistering heat in August with no clean water to drink. Buying water for his crew of 38 volunteers for
weeks on end would be far too expensive to do on his shoestring budget, and he had no one to turn to
on such short notice for help. Josiah feared he would have to close up the production and return home.
As he sipped on a glass of soda, he found it ironic that water, which flooded this city and left many
residents without homes or hope, would now be his downfall as he tried to spread the joy of theater to
its children. "Hello, sir," a man at the table next to him said. "What brings you to New Orleans?" Josiah
shook his head. Later, he would find it amusing that this man knew just by looking that Josiah was not a
local. For now, he was just tired and irritated. "Look, I don"t mean to be rude, but I"ve had a bad day,"
Josiah said. "I don"t much feel like talking." "What brings you to town?" the man said, pleasantly. Josiah
grudgingly talked a bit about his work as a theater director in Manhattan and his dream to bring a top-
flight play to the children of New Orleans. The next day, as Josiah left a blazing hot outdoor studio, he
noticed the same man from the restaurant, parked on the street. A shock of fluffy white hair framed his
dark face, making him look almost saintly. "Look, sir, what do you want?" "To help." "How?" "What do
you need?" "What I really need is clean water. That"s all I need." Josiah turned and walked away. He had
been rude, he knew, but he was so frustrated by this problem. When he arrived back at his hotel room
that evening, the front desk clerk handed Josiah an unmarked envelope. Inside was a check for $2,000.
The memo line read, "For water." Josiah was flabbergasted. Who was this man? As he pondered his
good fortune, the phone rang in his hotel room. "Will that get you some water?" a voice said on the
other end. "Why, yes, yes it will," Josiah said. "Thank you so much for your generosity." "My wife and I
would like to take you to dinner." Josiah could not refuse! This man was his savior, and his curiosity had
gotten the best of him. Who was this benefactor? At dinner, Etienne Fanchon and his wife, Adelaide,
formally introduced themselves. Mr. Fanchon never graduated from high school, but inherited 5 acres of
land from his father upon his death. For years, Mr. Fanchon grew cucumbers on the land, barely making
a living. One day, a neighbor offered Fanchon a bag of money if Mr. Fanchon would let him bury three
old trucks at the back of his property. Mr. Fanchon took the bag and agreed. Later, he could not believe
how much money was in the bag. "And just for letting him bury some trucks!" The next morning, Mr.
Fanchon said, he woke up, picked all the cucumbers off his land, and converted the 5 acres into a waste
management facility. He is now one of New Orleans" few multimillionaires. "So, I have all this money
now and live to help others," said Mr. Fanchon. "That is why I"ve helped you.""
