EL DIA DE SAN JUAN	"A boy is sitting on the edge of a fountain. A girl comes up. She pushes him. Splash! He falls into the
water! He gasps and yells angrily. But he’s not really angry. He’s just pretending. And he’s planning to
push someone else into the water. Many people will get wet today.
It is June 24 in Mexico. The Mexican boys and girls are not wearing their best things today. Why not?
Because they know they may be pushed into the water. They may get all wet. That’s what happens on
June 24. The children expect it. The day would not be complete without a dipping. Some children even
seem to ask for a push by standing near some water. It’s great fun.
There is a reason for all this. June 24 is Saint John’s Day. In Spanish it’s called El Dia de San Juan. Saint
John the Baptist is the patron saint of water. He used to wash people in the River Jordan when they
became Christians. That was to show that their sins were washed away. So all the special doings on Saint
John’s Day have something to do with water. Pools are made pretty with flowers and candles on this
day. So are wells. So are fountains. Many people call it “bath day.”
The fun really begins on June 23. Late that night people get together. They go where there is water.
Some go to streams. Some go to lakes. Some go to pools. They take a picnic meal. They take instruments
to make music. They have a party. As the sun comes up, everyone goes into the water. By custom, this is
the time to go in. But it doesn’t stop there. All through the 24th, people keep on splashing in the water.
It’s “bath day” all day.
Something else happens in Mexico on the 24th. In some places the statues of saints are cleaned on this
day. It is their yearly bath. They are brought out of the churches. They are washed. Then they are dried.
They are put back in their places shining clean.
There is one other thing that Mexican people do on this day. Women and girls wash their hair. Then a
man from the family cuts off the ends. He uses a big knife called a machete. This reminds people of the
way in which Saint John died. (A wicked king had the saint’s head out off.) This is done in memory of
Saint John. But some say it makes the hair grow better too.
Sometimes it rains on Saint John’s Day. Then the Mexicans say “San Juan llora.” That means “Saint John
is crying.” But that won’t stop the fun. Rain or shine, it’s a fine day to get wet."	Eric Carle
