GUERMO'S SURPRISE	"Liz was just about finished wrapping up the final details for the surprise party she was planning for her
husband. She had been meticulously preparing for this event, designing every aspect of the party from
the invitations to the food, and she was very excited about it. Family members whom Guermo hadnt
seen in years were flying in from Peru in a few days. Liz had tracked down several college friends, and
they were coming from various places across the country. The caterer and band were set. The best part
for Liz: she knew Guermo did not have a clue about the party. She could not wait to see the look on his
face when he walked into a big 'Surprise!' in his own home. The party was to be on Saturday. As Liz was
daydreaming about picking relatives up at the airport the next day and taking them to their hotel,
Guermo walked into the kitchen and said, quite certainly, 'Sweetheart, I don't want anything special
done for my birthday.' 'What do you mean?' Liz responded nonchalantly, though her heart began to
pound. 'I mean that I don't want a surprise party.' 'Okay,' Liz said with a shrug. 'Not a problem.' Liz's
mind raced. There was nothing she could do about Guermo's request now. And, frankly, she didn't want
to. Liz had been planning this for more than a year. The party would go off as she intended. She did not
want all of her effort to be for naught. When Guermo came home Saturday evening from playing soccer
with friends, he was shocked. Tears filled his eyes. (This response was something Liz had not predicted.)
Among the crowd he saw friends whom he had not seen in nearly 20 years and family members who
had come from Peru just for this evening. But along with being deeply moved, he was also angry with his
wife. He felt ambushed. He knew he could be emotional, and he did not like people to see him that way.
That was why he did not like being surprised. Salsa music filled the home of Liz and Guermo. Guests
filled up on ceviche, lomo soltado and empanadas. Liz whispered 'I love you' in Guermo's ear, they
shared a kiss, and the two danced the night away."	Susan Carter
