LIGHTNING AND THUNDER
By Ashley Bryan

Lightning is a streak of electricity that occurs in every thunderstorm. You see lightning before you hear thunder because light travels faster than sound. Lightning is caused when the negative charge of electricity in the rain clouds meets the positive charge of electricity in the falling raindrops. Most lightning occurs from cloud to cloud, but some lightning occurs from cloud to ground, where it can start fires, melt metal, or be deadly to people. Although 90 percent of people survive lightning strikes, they can cause major internal injuries, burns, and hearing loss. 240,000 people are struck by lightning or are injured as a result of lightning every year. Thunder is caused by the rapid expansion of air and temperature inside and around a lightning strike. Such an expansion of air is known as a sonic shock wave. Did you know you can calculate the distance of lightning from its thunder? Thunder occurs after lightning because the light travels much more quickly than sound. In normal circumstances, lightning is 0.2 miles distance from a given location for every second that passes between the lightning and its thunder. Thus, if you see lightning in the sky and hear thunder five seconds later, the lightning is about one mile from your location


Questions
1.) Lightning occurs… 
a.) in every thunderstorm. (-)
b.) in a few thunderstorms. 
c.) in some thunderstorms. 
d.) in most thunderstorms. 
2.) Why do you see lightning before you hear thunder? 
a.) Because lightning comes before thunder 
b.) Because light travels faster than sound (-)
c.) Because lightning causes thunder 
d.) Because thunder causes lightning 
3.) Most lightning… 
a.) occurs from cloud to ground. (-)
b.) melts metal. 
c.) occurs between clouds. 
d.) occurs from ground to cloud. 
4.) What can you infer from this sentence: Although 90 percent of people survive lightning strikes, they can cause major internal injuries, burns, and hearing loss. 
a.) Lightning is not that dangerous. 
b.) Although most people survive lightning strikes, some do not. 
c.) Lightning can cause major burns. (-)
5.) Which of the following is NOT a possible outcome of lightning? 
a.) injury 
b.) electricity (-)
c.) death 
d.) burns
