MOTHER'S DAY	"The idea of Mother’s Day is a very old idea. This idea dates back to the ancient Egyptians, who
celebrated a day to honor Isis, the mother of the pharaohs. The Egyptians were not the only ones who
felt the need to honor their mothers. The ancient Greeks celebrated a day to honor Rhea, the mother of
the gods. The Romans built a temple to the mother of the gods, named Magna Mater. They also held a
celebration every March in her honor. The early Christians celebrated a day to honor Mary, the mother
of Jesus. Later, English Christians expanded the celebration to honor all mothers. This English holiday
was called “Mothering Sunday.” When the English colonists came to America, they did not have time for
Mothering Sunday, so the holiday was not celebrated in America. During the U.S. Civil War, mothers on
both sides of the war lost sons. The country was very sad. Grieving mothers from both sides had
meetings. Sometimes families had been torn apart by the war. In 1868, Ann Reeves Jarvis started a
committee to help families get back together after the war. This committee tried to establish a
“Mothers’ Friendship Day” for mothers who had lost sons in the war. Unfortunately, Ann Reeves Jarvis
died in 1905, so she did not see that the day eventually became popular. Another woman, Julia Ward
Howe was also against the war. She was also against slavery. She declared the first official Mother’s Day
in 1870, and held an anti–war Mother’s Day observance. She funded this observance with her own
money every year for several years, but an annual Mother’s Day celebration still did not catch on in the
U.S. However, the idea stayed alive. Meanwhile, Anna M. Jarvis, The daughter of Ann Reeves Jarvis,
wanted to honor her mother. She requested that her mother’s West Virginia church be allowed to
celebrate a Mother’s Day in 1908 in honor of her mother. Every mother at church that day received two
carnations –– Ann Reeves Jarvis’ favorite flower. Now, carnations and other flowers are associated with
Mother’s Day because they were handed out at the first celebration of Mother’s Day. In 1914, the U.S.
Congress passed a law which designated the second Sunday in May as Mother’s Day. In the same year,
President Woodrow Wilson proclaimed the first Mother’s Day. He called for the flying of the flag to
honor the mothers who had lost sons in war. Mother’s Day is celebrated in many other countries. In
Mexico, Dia de las Madres is celebrated on May 10. It is a popular holiday celebrated by schools,
churches, and civic groups. Children give their mothers flowers and handmade cards. Schools present
performances in honor of mothers as part of the national observance of Dia de las Madres. In China, ten
distinguished mothers are chosen to receive government recognition. National drives for mothers living
in poverty are also held. The holiday is a demonstration of the respect the Chinese have for the elderly,
and the love they have for their parents. In India, children send their mothers cards and flowers and
cook a meal for their mothers. Companies launch women’s products on Mother’s Day, and restaurants
advertise heavily for Mother’s Day; the day has become commercialized. In Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, South Africa, and Ireland, Mother’s Day is celebrated on the same day as in the United States
–– the second Sunday in May. People mark the day in the same way that they do in the United States.
Children give their mothers cards, gifts, and flowers. Churches and schools give special Mother’s Day
presentations, and civic groups observe the day. The first President of the U.S., George Washington, said
of his own mother, “My mother was the most beautiful woman I ever saw. All I am I owe to my mother.
I attribute all my success in life to the moral, intellectual and physical education I received from her.”"	Susan Carter
