MOUNT VESUVIUS
By Conzetta Marcoz

Mount Vesuvius is an active volcano located just east of Naples, Italy. It is the only volcano on the continent of Europe to have erupted in the last 100 years, though other volcanoes have erupted on islands in the Mediterranean Sea. In 1631, approximately 3,000 people were killed by an eruption from Mount Vesuvius. Since 1631, the 4,200-foot-high volcano has erupted at least 21 times. Mount Vesuvius is considered particularly dangerous because today, nearly 3 million people live in the direct path of a potential future eruption. Mount Vesuvius is most famous for its landmark eruption in the year 79 AD, which buried the cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum in layers of burning ash. The only account of the eruption that survives is from Pliny the Younger. From his dramatic account, scientists believe the cloud of ash he witnessed that descended upon Pompeii was 20 miles high. The city of Pompeii was completely buried. It was rediscovered in 1748, more than 1,600 years after the eruption. The people of Pompeii were found buried under 12 layers of soil. Many of the buildings were amazingly well preserved, as were the bodies of those who were just going about their daily routines when the eruption occurred. The ruins at Pompeii have provided archaeologists with valuable information about how people in the Roman Empire lived. Today, Pompeii is one of the most visited sites in Italy.

Questions
1.) Which of the following best SPECIFIES the location of Mount Vesuvius? 
a.) Italy 
b.) Just east of Naples, Italy (-)
c.) Southern Italy 
d.) Europe 
2.) Why is Mount Vesuvius considered very dangerous? 
a.) Because many people live in the path of a possible eruption (-)
b.) It is a very high volcano. 
c.) Because it has erupted before 
d.) Because it buried Pompeii in the year 79 AD 
3.) How many volcanoes have erupted in mainland Europe in the past 100 years? 
a.) More volcanoes have erupted in mainland Europe than on islands in the Mediterranean Sea. 
b.) 0 
c.) It's impossible to say. 
d.) 1 (-)
4.) What does the word "descended" mean in the following sentence: From his dramatic account, scientists believe the cloud of ash he witnessed that descended upon Pompeii was 20 miles high. 
a.) cover 
b.) destroy 
c.) hang on 
d.) fall down on (-)
5.) Why do you think Pompeii is one of the most visited sites in Italy? 
a.) Because people can see the well-preserved bodies of people who were caught in the eruption (-)
b.) Because people can see the well-preserved ruins of ancient buildings 
c.) Because people can see Mt. Vesuvius 
d.) All of the above
