"Midge King wished she could be like her best friend, Jan Ross. Everything was easy for Jan. Schoolwork
was easy for her and sports were easy for her. Jan was used to winning.
Midge was different. She had to work hard at her lessons. She also had to work hard at sports.
Both girls tried out for the track team. The coach told them to run the fifty-meter dash. Jan won easily.
Midge came in fourth. "I told you I"d win in a breeze," Jan said.
Midge didn"t say anything. She promised herself that she would win the next race even if she had to
work harder than she had ever worked before.
Next the coach announced a distance race. The runners had to go twice round the track.
As they took their starting positions, Midge thought about the race. Sprinting as fast as possible was not
the way to win. That was the way to run a short dash, not a longer race. Running fast at the beginning
would mean getting tired fast.
"On your marks, get set go!" shouted the coach.
Jan was sprinting off ahead of everyone else. Midge chased after her but didn"t try to pass her. Two
other girls passed Midge. She didn"t mind. She knew they"d tire soon.
At the turn Jan was still leading, but one of the others was falling back. Midge was running at her own
pace.
She was going to win this one, she told herself. She was running according to a plan. She had time to
pass the others and then she would race Jan for the finish.
At the end of the first lap Jan was running slower but was still ahead. Midge was catching up. There was
a red-haired girl between Midge and Jan. Midge caught up with her. The redhead was breathing hard as
Midge passed her.
Now only Jan was ahead of her. Midge stretched her legs and ran faster. At the turn Jan was in trouble,
gasping for air. Midge caught up with Jan and passed her. Now she was leading. And the finish line was
only a little way ahead. Her breath was coming hard now. She could feel her heart hammering. Her
mouth was dry and her ears hurt. And with every step it became harder and harder to breathe.
But she didn"t let those things stop her. She ran as fast as she could. Her legs pumped up and down as
she ran full tilt past the finish mark.
She had won! Her plan had worked.
Later Jan said to Midge, "You were lucky!"
"That"s right," Midge said. "It was just luck -with a plan and hard work to make sure!""	Keith Galves
