"Senor Rooster lived in a village in Uruguay. He liked to take walks out of the village to see the world.
One day he wandered deep into the forest. He flew up to the top of a tall tree to view the land.
Just then Senor Fox came walking by and heard Senor Rooster flap his wings. The fox looked up. He saw
the fat rooster and thought that he would make a fine meal. Although Senor Fox could not get up into
the tree, he remembered that good words often pave good roads.
"My dear friend, Senor Rooster!" he cried. "It seems strange for a famous gentleman like you to be all
alone. Won"t all the fine fat hens in the henhouse be worried about you? Won"t they wonder where you
have gone?"
"Yes, they will, Senor Fox," said the rooster. "But the longer they wait, the happier they will be to see
me when I get back."
"You"re very Wise. But don"t make the poor hens wait too long. Come down and I"ll walk back with you.
I"m going your way."
The rooster laughed. "What sweet words you use to catch me! Do you really think I"ll come down so that
you can have me for your lunch? Sweet words catch fools."
"Don"t say that, Senor Rooster. It is true that in the past I have behaved badly, but no more. I have
changed now. Besides, haven"t you heard? There"s a new decree in our forest. No animal may eat
another; all animals must be friends. Anyone who breaks this law will be fiercely punished. I would not
dare eat you now, my good friend. So, you can come down."
"Really!" said Senor Rooster. But still he did not come down.
And then from his perch he saw a hunter with his dogs. That gave the rooster an idea He began to count.
"One, two, three"
"What are you counting, good friend?"
"Four, five . . .
"What are you counting? Tell me, friend."
Senor Rooster said, "Why, the six big dogs running this way. And there seems to be a hunter behind
them."
"Dogs! Hunter! Coming this way?"
"Yes, Senor Fox."
"From which direction are they coming? Please, tell me quickly!"

"They"re coming from that way," and the rooster pointed his wing in the opposite direction from which
he saw them.

"Well, I"ve got to run now," cried the fox. "So long." And off he ran.
"But, Senor Fox," called the rooster, "don"t run off! Just tell the dogs and the hunter about the new law
in the forest!"
Senor Fox ran into the dogs. And Senor Rooster smiled in his tree. If you dig a pit to catch someone
innocent, you often fall into it yourself. Over smart is bad luck."	Stine Gaiman
