PEREGRINE FALCON
By Gwen Cooper

The peregrine falcon is a large, powerful falcon of seashores, mountain ranges, and the Arctic tundra. Peregrine falcons hunt medium-to large-sized birds and are especially fond of ducks, shorebirds, and pigeons. Peregrine falcons are extremely strong flyers and often seize their prey at speeds of over 100 miles per hour. Some peregrine falcons have even been clocked at higher speeds while hunting. The peregrine falcon could once be found throughout the United States. DDT, a chemical for controlling insects, caused the eastern population of peregrine falcons to crash. Peregrine falcons, bald eagles, and other birds of prey would eat fish and ducks that were contaminated with the chemical. As DDT built up in their bodies, such birds of prey would lay brittle eggs that would crack easily. In 1972, DDT was made illegal to use in America, and some birds of prey made a comeback. The peregrine falcon, however, did not. Scientists took a different approach to the peregrine falcon. Since peregrines nest on mountain cliffs, scientists began capturing the falcons and relocating them to big cities with skyscrapers. The plan worked. Today the peregrine falcon is no longer an endangered species. Peregrines now thrive in Boston, New York City, Baltimore, and Pittsburgh. In those cities, they can have as many pigeons as they want.


Questions
1.) Where would the peregrine falcon not be found? 
a.) Rocky Mountains 
b.) California shore (-)
c.) Arctic tundra 
d.) Arizona desert 
2.) Which of the following would the peregrine falcon likely not eat? 
a.) wood duck 
b.) hummingbird 
c.) pigeon (-)
d.) shorebirds 
3.) Some peregrine falcons have been clocked at speeds of more than ____ miles per hour while ____. a.) 100; hunting (-) 
b.) 100; sleeping 
c.) 50; defending the nest 
d.) 50; chasing away predators 
4.) Which of the following words would best describe DDT? 
a.) harmless 
b.) harmful (-)
c.) helpful 
d.) colorful 
5.) Which of the following statements is true? 
a.) Unlike other birds of prey, the peregrine falcon made a comeback after DDT was made illegal. (-)
b.) Like other birds of prey, the peregrine falcon made a comeback after DDT was made illegal. 
c.) Unlike other birds of prey, the peregrine falcon did not make a comeback after DDT was made illegal. 
d.) Like other birds of prey, the peregrine falcon did not make a comeback after DDT was made illegal.
