ROUND AND ROUND THEY GO	"Look at a wheel-any wheel. Think of all the wheels you see each day. It would be hard to count them all.
All through life, people use wheels. Wheels help move people from place to place. They are found on
such different objects as bicycles and trains. They also help to make your food, your home, and your
clothes.
But what is a wheel? How does it work? A wheel is a round, flat object that turns. Most of the time a
wheel turns on an axle. An axle is a rod or a pin. It goes through the middle, or hub, of the wheel.
The wheel seems like a simple tool. One might think that it has always been on the earth. Yet once there
were no wheels.
The first wheel was made about six thousand years ago. Before that time people had to carry loads on
their backs. Sometimes a load was too heavy to carry. Then people had to pull it on a sledge. Hunters
who had killed a bear might pull it home on a sledge made of bark or hides. Then wheels were invented.
Sledges were put on top of the wheels. These were the first wagons.
We know this from some picture writing that was found in Iraq. The writing is fifty-five hundred years
old. One little picture showed a sledge. Another showed a sledge on wheels~ the first wagon.
No one knows how the wheel was invented. It is thought that the idea of wheels came from using logs
as rollers. Part of the log was cut away to make wheels and an axle. But this is just a guess.
Today’s axles stay still while the wheels turn. But the first wheels and axles were not made that way. An
axle and its wheels were fastened together. They turned in one piece. This made carts move very slowly.
Then, in time, changes were made. The ends of the axle were made to go through the hubs of the
wheels. Grease was put into the hubs. The wheels could turn more easily.
Probably farmers were the first people to use carts. The carts carried crops from the fields to the
villages. Later, kings and soldiers rode in two wheeled carts pulled by horses. These carts were called
chariots. The wheels of the chariots had spokes. Spoke wheels were lighter than the old, solid wheels
In time, the wheel befoul used to make all kinds of things run Can you picture what life would be like if
there were no wheels?
Think about this: how long did it take you to read this story? You might not know in a world without
wheels. Wheels make clocks run."	Eric Carle
