TARO AND THE TOFU	"Taro stood at the window of his home. He was watching for the tofu seller. Taro’s mother bought tofu, or bean curd, from the old peddler. Every evening he came along the streets in their small village in Japan. But this evening he did not come. Taro and his mother waited. Then Taro said, “I will run to the shop and get the tofu, mother.” When Taro got to the shop, the old man was surprised to see him. “I’m sorry I didn’t come tonight,” the old man said. “My grandson doesn’t feel well. I couldn’t leave him alone.” Then the man filled Taro’s tofu pan. 
“How much?” asked Taro. 
“Thirty yen,” the man said. 
Taro gave a coin to the old man. The man then counted out the change. He handed it to Taro. 
“Thank you,” he said to the boy. 
“Thank you and goodbye,” said Taro. 
When Taro did an errand for his mother or father, they let him keep ten yen. So Taro ran to the sweet shop at the end of the street. He saw two chocolate bars he wanted. So he put his hand in his pocket to take out his coins. But Taro was surprised at what he saw. There was an extra forty yen. 
“The old man made a mistake,” the boy said to himself. “I must return the change this moment. The man will worry if he finds he has lost money.” 
Then Taro heard a strange voice. It came from inside his head
“Who knows that you have the extra money?” the voice said. “And think of what you could buy with it. All those sweets!
Then there was almost a shout from inside him. “No, no. I must return the money this minute.” Taro paid for the bars. Then he ran out of the sweet shop and back to the old man’s shop. There he saw the old man near a big pot of tofu. 
“You gave me too much change,” said Taro. “I came to give it back to you.” 
“Thank you very much,” said the man. 
Taro was happy. But he was embarrassed, too. For he thought of the strange little voice. He reached into his pocket. He took out one of the chocolate bars. 
“This is for your grandson,” he said to the old man. “Thank you, Taro,” said the man. When Taro got home, he told his parents why he was so late. But he didn’t tell them about the strange voice in his head. And he didn’t tell them about the chocolate bar he gave away. He wanted to keep those things to himself. It was cold outside. But Taro felt warm. He ate his bar of chocolate. And it tasted good.
"	Stine Gaiman
