"In the splendid palace of the Emerald City, which is in the center of the fairy Land of Oz, is a great Throne Room. This is where Princess Ozma, the Ruler, sits in a throne of glistening emeralds for an hour each day and listens to all the troubles of her people, which they are sure to tell her about. Around Ozma's throne, on such occasions, are grouped all the important personages1 of Oz, such as the Scarecrow, Tiktok the Clockwork Man, the Tin Woodman, the Wizard of Oz, and other famous fairy people. Little Dorothy usually has a seat at Ozma's feet, and crouched on either side the throne are two enormous beasts known as the Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion. These two beasts are Ozma's chief guardians, but as everyone loves the beautiful girl Princess there has never been any disturbance in the great Throne Room, or anything for the guardians to do but look fierce and solemn2 and keep quiet until the Royal Audience is over and the people go away to their homes. Of course no one would dare be naughty while the huge Lion and Tiger crouched beside the throne; but the fact is, the people of Oz are very seldom naughty. So Ozma's big guards are more ornamental3 than useful. No one realizes that better than the beasts themselves. One day, after everyone had left the Throne Room except the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger, the Lion yawned and said to his friend: ""I'm getting tired of this job. No one is afraid of us and no one pays any attention to us."" ""That is true,"" replied the big Tiger, purring softly. ""We might as well be in the thick jungles where we were born, as trying to protect Ozma when she needs no protection. And I'm dreadfully hungry all the time."" ""You have enough to eat, I'm sure,"" said the Lion, swaying his tail slowly back and forth. ""Enough, perhaps; but not the kind of food I long for,"" answered the Tiger. ""What I'm hungry for is fat babies. I have a great desire to eat a few fat babies. Then, perhaps, the people of Oz would fear me and I'd become more important."" ""True,"" agreed the Lion. ""It would stir up quite a scene if you ate but one fat baby. As for myself, my claws are sharp as needles and strong as crowbars. My teeth are powerful enough to tear a person to pieces in a few seconds. I could spring upon a man and make chop suey of him. There would be wild excitement in the Emerald City. People would fall upon their knees and beg me for mercy. That, in my opinion, would render me very important."" ""After you had torn the person to pieces, what would you do next?"" asked the Tiger sleepily.
""Then I would roar so loudly it would shake the earth and stalk away to the jungle to hide myself, before anyone could attack me or kill me for what I had done."" ""I see,"" nodded the Tiger. ""You are really cowardly."" ""To be sure. That is why I am named the Cowardly Lion. That is why I have always been so tame and peaceable. But I'm awfully tired of being tame,"" added the Lion, with a sigh, ""and it would be fun to raise a row and show people what a terrible beast I really am."" The Tiger remained silent for several minutes, thinking deeply as he slowly washed his face with his left paw. Then he said: ""I'm getting old, and it would please me to eat at least one fat baby before I die. Suppose we surprise these people of Oz and prove our power. What do you say? We will walk out of here just as usual and the first baby we meet I'll eat in a jiffy4 . And the first man or woman you meet, you will tear to pieces. Then we will both run out of the city gates and gallop across the country and hide in the jungle before anyone can stop us."" ""All right. I'm game,"" said the Lion, yawning again so that he showed two rows of large sharp teeth. The Tiger got up and stretched his great, sleek body. ""Seen any of them old Hydrophobies the last day or two?"" ""Come on,"" he said. The Lion stood up and proved he was the larger of the two, for he was almost as big as a small horse. Out of the palace they walked, and met no one. They passed through the beautiful grounds, past fountains and beds of lovely flowers, and met no one. Then they unlatched a gate and entered a street of the city, and met no one. ""I wonder how a fat baby will taste,"" said the Tiger, as they stalked majestically5 along, side by side. ""I imagine it will taste like nutmegs,"" said the Lion. ""No,"" said the Tiger, ""I've an idea it will taste like gumdrops."" They turned a corner, but met no one, for the people of the Emerald City usually take their naps at this hour of the afternoon.
"