THE FLU
By GINA HOPKINS

Have you ever had the flu? If you have, you know how miserable it can make you feel. Most kids will get the flu sometime during their school years. When you have the flu, you usually get a fever (which can be high), have a cough, feel very tired, and may have a sore throat as well. It can make you feel sick for a few days or for as long as a week. Sometimes, it can be hard to tell if you have the flu or a cold, but with the flu, you'll usually have a higher fever and feel much worse. The flu is a type of virus, which means medicine will only help the symptoms such as the cough and fever. For most kids, the flu comes and goes, but for some, it can be a serious illness. Most kids get the flu in the winter because germs spread more easily when kids are inside in settings such as classrooms. The best way to prevent yourself from getting the flu is to wash your hands often, keep your hands to yourself, and go to your doctor for the flu shot or mist.

Questions
1.) According to the author… 
a.) most kids don't even realize they have the flu. 
b.) the flu can't easily spread from one person to another. 
c.) most kids get the flu in winter.  (correct)
d.) medicine can help kill the flu. 
2.) What is the best meaning of the word "symptoms" as used in the following sentence? The flu is a type of virus, which means medicine will only help the symptoms such as the cough and fever. 
a.) viruses 
b.) colds 
c.) signs (correct)
d.) medicines 
3.) Based on the following sentence, which of the following might be another setting where the flu could easily spread? Most kids get the flu in the winter because germs spread more easily when kids are inside in settings such as classrooms. 
a.) A city park 
b.) The baseball field 
c.) A day-care center  (correct)
d.) A forest 
4.) Which of the following WOULD NOT help you in preventing the flu? 
a.) Getting a flu shot or flu mist 
b.) Washing your hands often 
c.) Keeping your hands to yourself 
d.) Shaking the hands of your classmates  (correct)
5.) Which sentence has the same meaning as this sentence: For most kids, the flu comes and goes, but for some, it can be a serious illness. 
a.) For the flu, kids can be a serious illness. 
b.) For most kids, the flu is a serious illness, but for some, it comes and goes.  (correct)
c.) The flu comes and goes for some kids. 
d.) While the flu can be a serious illness, most kids who get it will recover.
