THE CASE OF THE UNKNOWN BROTHER	"Kate Holmes was visiting a friend, old Mrs. Sydney. Mrs. Sydney had known Kate all her life. She liked to
tell Kate about mysteries and see whether Kate could solve them.
“You are very good at solving mysteries,” she said to Kate, “but someday I&#39;ll fool you! Maybe I’ll be able
to fool you today. Did I ever tell you about the case of the Unknown Brother?”
Kate said no and listened. She liked Mrs. Sydney’s stories.
“Well,” Mrs. Sydney said, “Jed Wright was my friend when I was a child. He ran away from home when
he was very young and lived for years by doing odd jobs. Finally, in 1927, he went to Michigan, where he
found a copper mine. He bought the land and ran the mine and became a very rich man. “Jed never
married. His parents had died years before, and his only relative was a brother.
One day Jed knew he was dying. He sent for a good friend, Dan Cole, who had worked for him for years.
“Jed gave Dan two envelopes.”This one is for you,’ he said, ‘and please give this one to my brother Alf.
He is . . .’ While he was speaking, Jed died.
“There was a will in Dan’s envelope. It gave him Jed‘s mine and house. The envelope for Alf had cash and
some business papers in it. Dan and Alf were each to get about half of Jed’s fortune. They would both be
rich. “Dan had never seen Alf. He had only two clues. One was an old photo that showed Alf and Jed. But
it had been taken fifty years before, when they were boys of ten. The other clue was a postcard from
Alf. It had no address. It had been mailed in Boston the month before Jed died.
“Dan went to Boston. He put an ad in the paper. The ad said there was good news for Alf Wright. It told
where
Dan was staying.
“The next day, more than a hundred men came to Dan’s hotel. They all said they were Alf Wright. But
though he had never seen Alf, Dan was able to pick him out right away.”
When Mrs. Sydney finished her tale, she smiled.
“All right, Kate,” she said. “How did he know Alf?”
Kate smiled too.
“That’s easy,” she said. “You told me how. The clue was the photo.”
“Yes, it was,” said Mrs. Sydney. “But it was taken when Alf and Jed were boys. How could that help?”
“You said it was taken when both boys were ten years old,” Kate said. “So they had to be twins. They
looked alike. That’s how Dan knew Alf!”
And Mrs. Sydney had to admit that Kane Holmes had won again."	Keith Galves
