""Crack-crack"kowowww! Thunder, and then a shock of lightening etched its reflection upon the
corrugated metal siding," Rowan read aloud. She worked to read clearly, with depth and emotion. Her
eyes scanned the next paragraph. She took a breath to continue, but was interrupted by her younger
brother Nolan, stretched out on the living room couch, flicking a pencil against his forehead. "I was
never a big fan of onomatopoeia," Nolan said, in his usual, supercilious manner. "It is impossible to write
words that truly sound like a thunderstorm, a jar opening, or a falling tree, yes? But please, do
continue." Rowan sucked her teeth. "That"s why I can"t stand doing this in front of you, Nolli. You are no
help at all. Haven"t you something better to do?" "Ha! Better than to annoy you before your moment of
reckoning? I don"t think so." Nolan&#39;s enjoyment of getting under his big sister"s skin was fully
conspicuous. "Nolli, please keep quiet!" Mother Ann broke in. "This is important. Rowan presents in less
than an hour. She needs to focus. Row, sweetheart, please continue." Mother Ann&#39;s comments seemed
to assuage Rowan"s irritation. She cleared her throat and continued where she had left off. "Farmer
John knew this was a storm of epic proportion. Even the cows retreated to their hutches. Not one
person in the"" "The cows retreated? The cows retreated?" Nolan chortled upon hearing the repetition
of this line in his own voice. "That"s great. Even the stupid cows retreated! Oh, man. That must have
been one heck of a storm-a-brewin". Mama, I"m scared!" Nolan howled at the ceiling and curled up into
a tight little ball of laughter. "Nolli!" Mother Ann shouted suddenly, her thunderous voice tantamount to
the rumbling storm Rowan was attempting to capture in her reading. Nolan gave a little start. ""You have
no idea how difficult it is to speak in front of a crowd. Your sister has been preparing for this
presentation for weeks and I swear if you don's"" Mother Ann continued to castigate Nolan most
thoroughly, scolding him for his rudeness and lack of respect. Then, feeling as though she had achieved
the intended effect, she sighed rather contentedly and reclined in her chair. Sometimes she reminded
even herself the fury by which, if completely necessary, she could quell any quarrel. Nolan had fallen
silent and was now sitting upright, his hands folded before him. He actually appeared a bit remorseful.
"Oh, Mother," Rowan sighed, crumpling to the floor, despondent . "It"s no use. "The Storm" shall be the
end of me." "Ahh, but Rowan, my dear," Mother rejoined. "This is but a mere shower!""	