"Once upon a time, long ago, there lived a rich wizard who was famous in all parts of the land. Nobles,
high officials, and other important people had great respect for him. They came to the wise man for his
advice.
But there was one noble who did not like the wizard and wanted to do away with him. The noble
thought long and hard about how to do this. At last one day he came up with a plan.
The noble went to the king, "Your Majesty, you say that you rule this land and all its people," he said.
"But this is not so. The truth is that the people do not look upon you as their king. Instead, they obey a
wizard. He tells them what to do. The people think of him as their leader. But this wizard tells many lies
to the people. He even lies about you, 0 King! I fear he is a threat to your throne."
The king was very angry when he heard this news. He called ten of his guards. The king told them to
bring the wizard to the palace at once. Then the king spoke to his servants. "I want you to end the
Wizard"s life as soon as I give you the signal," he said.
Soon the wizard was found. The guards dragged him in front of the king.
"I have heard that you lie to my people," the king said in a loud voice. "You take their money but tell
them lies. Is this true? Tell me, who are you? What do you do for a living.
"Your Majesty," said the wizard. "I am a wise man. I know much about the past. I know much about the
present. I also tell of the future."
The king listened to the wizard. Then the king said to him, &#39;You say you are a wise man. Then I will ask
you one more thing. Perhaps you can tell me the answer. When am I going to die?&quot;
The wizard thought for a while. Then he said, "Your Majesty will die the day after I die."
All the king&#39;s servants trembled when they heard this. They believed in the wizard and his telling of the
future. The king also shook with fear. He gave no signal to end the Wizard&#39;s life. Instead, the king told his
servants to treat the wizard as the great man he was.
From that day on, the wizard lived at the king"s palace. The people loved and respected him more than
ever. And the king did all that he could do to make sure that the wizard live a happy-and long-life."	